you came in to build a different part of
the business in a lot of ways like
you're you got brought in to build the
enterprise. It's a big hurdle when you
have a PLG motion and then you start to
go into the enterprise. What did it look
like day one? Yeah. So, I think the
first things first is and most of you
probably know this if you've been
knocking around in the SAS world for a
while. We all know it's a lot easier to
go from PLG to SLG than to go from SLG
to PLG. That is a very hard motion to
back channel.
And so green flags for us were we had a
lot of data. We had a lot of good
product usage data. We weren't using it
necessarily in the ways that looked like
you could get a a salesled motion going,
but we knew what we needed to do to get
there. I think the other big green flag
was we were building an enterprise
product. So you we had an intentionality
to building something that was really
right for enterprises as opposed to just
having this self-s served product and
thinking we could charge more and jam it
into an enterprise. That was not our
mindset at all. We wanted to give value
first and get value second. Red flags.
We hadn't done it before. We had a
culture that thought touchless. We had a
culture that like really leaned heavily
on organic network driven adoption. And
so we had to think about like what is
organic networkled adoption inside of an
enterprise.
[Music]
Hey everybody, the bests are taken or
overpriced. I was literally looking for
a domain name the other day. It was
$10,000 just to make an offer. So you
settle on a workaround domain for your
website. Don't compromise. Get a
cleansharp.te domain that instantly says
is a tech startup. Grab yours at get.te.
tech/saster.
That's get.te/saster
or on domain registers like GoDaddy.
Stop compromising. Get the domain you
need.
Hey everybody, Saster AI is coming to
London December 2nd and 3rd. It's
Christmas at Saster and thousands of the
best in AI and B2B will be there. The
biggest names, the best networkings, and
most importantly, the best playbooks to
scaling in AI and SAS. Early adopter
tickets are selling like hotcakes. Don't
wait. There's only 5 months till the
event and we expect it to sell out to
capacity. Use my code Jason20 pod for
exclusive savings. Get your tickets now
at podcast.sasterlondon.com
or just use jason 20 pod at checkout.
Faster AI. It's where SAS meets AI in
London. See you there.
[Music]
Hi everybody. My name is John Gleason.
I'm the founder and managing partner at
Success Venture Partners. The
significance of that fund is that the
LPs are some of the best CCOs in the
world. 130 CCOs.
So, if there's one thing I love talking
to and talking about and talking with,
it's great CCOs. So, let me introduce
you all to my friend uh Rob G. Leho.
There we go. Did we get that right?
Nailed it. There. There we go. All
right. So Rob is the chief customer
officer at Canva where he oversees not
only customer success but Canva's entire
sales and go to market functions. Rob
brings over 20 years of industry
experience leading and executing global
marketing and sales initiatives. Before
Canva, Rob was at HubSpot where he was
also the chief customer officer. Before
that, he was the chief marketing officer
at Docyign and prior to that he spent 10
years at Adobe where he's leading their
goto market teams for their digital
media business and was responsible for
$7 billion worth of revenue. He's truly
one of the most accomplished and
sharpest leaders I know in go to market.
Everybody, let's welcome Rob. Here we
go.
You're a pretty good hype man, John.
That's good. Hyping you up. He's gasing
me right up.
Game on. All right. So, Rob, I got to
ask because you've got a pretty big
title, chief customer officer, but when
we were prepping, it's more than just,
you know, the customer side of things.
It's in the entire go to market motion.
What's your remitt? What does it look
like? Yeah, I think it's an evolution
that's going on in our industry, which
is there are groups of people who care
the most about a customer and you
organize those teams into a single
organization. Some places call it go to
market. Some people call it the customer
org and some people describe the leader
of that group as the chief customer
officer really for no other reason other
than to give a title that attaches to
the most important entity in any
business's
radar which is the customer. And I think
just by title it forces you back to
focus on the customer. So it's a it's a
big big to-do about a title that just
really is for focusing you on customers
which is like it's so obvious, right?
Like ultimately all of us exist. We
we're building our companies to serve
customers and somewhere in the mix we
forgot about that capital C thing, the
customer, right?
Yeah. Yeah. And I think we we always
used to sort of have these like very
commercial sounding titles to do the
same thing and it just disconnected the
work from who you're serving. And so the
that's why Canva did it. That's why
HubSpot does it that way. And that's why
many companies have changed their
titling to a chief customer officer or c
often times it's like purely customer
success but in Canada it's customer
success and it's sales and its
operations and things focused on the
customer. I love it. I love it. All
right. So you've held the top go to
market position though at Adobe at
Docyign at HubSpot now Canva. I often
tell people, you know, when you're
building a career, think of your career
maybe as like if you're a venture
capitalist, right? Um, and unlike me, I
get to make a whole bunch of mistakes. I
only need one to work out. You're quite
the picker. You pick four amazing
companies. So, just like talk me through
that like picking process. How'd that
process come to be? You know, how did
you know uh that that this was the next
one?
Yeah. So, how did I know Canva was the
right place to go?
Yeah. So I do I do a lot of mentoring to
folks that are younger in their careers.
And one of the things I describe is as
you're managing your career, you are
actually managing a portfolio of
opportunities. You have a portfolio of
options and you're you're going to place
a bet. And the way you place a bet on a
career should be very similar to the way
you'd place a bet on making an
investment. Do you believe in the
product is a number one. Do you believe
in the leadership team and the culture?
That's number two.
Unlike placing a bet where you're
removed from what happens with the
outcomes, the third one is can you make
a can you make a difference? Like is
this a company where your unique set of
skills are needed and you're actually
adding some kind of incremental value as
opposed to just taking up a job in a
role that anybody could do. And so I've
tried to avoid jobs where like anybody
could just do it because it would be
hard to really create a difference. and
I've tried to find places where maybe my
unique experiences or
things that I've learned along the way
can be helpful to the company. So, Canva
was really pretty straightforward. A
massive customer scale with a product
that people loved, a leadership team
that had an amazing culture, one that I
really aligned with, one that was
definitely customer first. Like, we talk
about giving value first and getting
value second. We talk about our two-step
mission, which is we want to do as much
good as we can in in the world as
possible, but the only way to do a lot
of good is to to get a lot of value. So,
we want to be big so we can do a lot of
good. And so, I just that aligned really
well with me. And when I got a I
actually got a text from one of the
founders who I had met years before and
it was like the afternoon before
Thanksgiving here in the US. Australia
obviously doesn't doesn't celebrate
Thanksgiving. And he's like, "Hey, can
we talk tomorrow?" And I was like,
"Well, it's Thanksgiving, but I maybe my
family would be okay with that. Let me
maybe early morning." He's like, "Oh,
sorry, mate. Early morning is middle of
the night for us." So late afternoon on
Thanksgiving, we chatted and uh and the
rest was history. At the time, Canva was
like maybe 170 million monthly active
users. We're at 230 million monthly
active users now. So, the company has
come a long way in a very short period
of time. Yeah. of getting a wow from the
audience. That's a quarter of a billion
people using the product every month.
Yeah, don't clap for me. It's an amazing
product. So, back to the idea that it's
a great product.
And I think the cool thing is a lot of
companies think about vanity stats. You
know, you could throw a chart like this
up and you could think about it as a
vanity stat, but we at Canva try really
hard to make sure that when we say
monthly active use, it's actually
completing a design. So, it's not just
opening something and starting. It's
opening something and and finishing,
feeling like they've completed it. It's
been shared with someone. It's been
downloaded. It's been saved. It's been
copied. Something has happened with that
design. It's been published. And then
that qualifies as monthly active use.
So, these are not vanity stats as much
as they're um north stars for us to stay
focused. And I love that. It's like
really thinking through almost like the
desired outcome. And sometimes like yeah
the first click we measured it there but
it's actually like people are getting
like that desired outcome when they sign
up for Canva.
Yeah that's the idea.
That's the idea. Okay. The numbers
though like oh my god there those are
insane numbers.
Everybody I think admires Canva for the
productled motion that you've all built.
You know if there was a poster you know
best PLGled company Canva would be
probably front and center. But you came
in to build a different part of the
business in a lot of ways. Like you're
you got brought in to build the
enterprise part of the business. So tell
me about that. Right. Sometimes it's a
big hurdle when you have a PLG motion
and then you start to go into the
enterprise. What did it look like day
one? What were some of the the cool
things, the green flags I'd call them?
And what were some of the red flags?
Yeah. So, I think the first things first
is, and most of you probably know this
if you've been knocking around in the
SAS world for a while. We all know it's
a lot easier to go from PLG to SLG than
to go from SLG to PLG. That is a very
hard motion to back channel.
I I worked on that side of the business
back when I was at Adobe and I can tell
you it's really hard to go from like a
mindset of enterprise only down into a
touchless PLG motion. It's way easier to
go PLG up market. And the reason I say
that is in a PLG motion when you have a
well-instrumented product and a decent
amount of customer love and product
engagement, you're getting signals every
day. And so green flags for us were we
had a lot of data. We had a lot of good
product usage data. We weren't using it
necessarily in the ways that looked like
you could get a a salesled motion going,
but we knew what we needed to do to get
there. It was literally all about the
data and its use. So that was one of the
biggest green flags. I think the other
big green flag was we were building an
enterprise product. So you we had an
intentionality to building something
that was really right for enterprises as
opposed to just having this self-s
served product and thinking we could
charge more and jam it into an
enterprise. That was not our mindset at
all. We wanted to give value first and
get value second. Red flags. We hadn't
done it before. Uh we had a culture that
thought touchless. We had a culture that
like really leaned heavily on organic
network-driven adoption. And so we had
to think about like what is organic
networkled adoption inside of an
enterprise. And although I think Canva
does a great job at PLG and we've done a
good job transitioning early phases to
SLG, there are a million and one great
examples in the world that do it really
really well and arguably in many vectors
better than Canva does. And we try to
spend a lot of time watching what others
do and and we try to search and reapply.
That's like the highest form of
flattery.
Yeah, of course. And like Canvas's got a
really special culture. So I imagine
like you know introducing this new part
of the business wasn't something that
the founders took lightly. So like what
was the journey they went on you know
were they you know fully fleshed out
with where they thought PLG could take
them was it the next frontier of scale
like what was their process when they
came to you and they're like yo Rob we
got a job for you here. Well it was it
started with um the company's mission is
to empower the world to design. So if
you're going to empower the world to
design, you have to be where the world
is designing and largely that's inside
of businesses. That's inside of
companies, organizations, higher ed,
places where applications in particular
SAS applications are largely controlled
by some sort of administrative process.
So think CIO, CTO, admin. And so to get
into those kind of environments, we had
to we had to think differently. And so
it started first with the founders
saying that's a place we want to help
people design and create and
communicate. And then the next step was
let's figure out how to go do that. The
thing that was really I think as anybody
who's a founder in here the thing that
really mattered a lot was like don't
have two different cultures. Don't build
an enterprise culture over here with
like all the downsides of what we think
of as enterprise culture. like there's a
lot of like you know sort of like deal
making finger pistoling kind of vibe
that we did not want to have. That's not
our culture.
We were you know we were really
interested in like trying to take
complex things and make them easy and we
were interested in helping businesses
express themselves and communicate and
scale and we felt like we could do that
with with an enterprise motion if we did
it in the context of Canvas culture.
Right.
So, like what did it all look like? Like
was there actually was there any AEES
there when you got there or did you have
to like start that from the ground up?
There were a couple. There weren't a
lot. There was a couple
and they were frustrated because they
knew what they wanted to do and yet, you
know, the product wasn't there. The
motion wasn't there. We we weren't
really like putting the right uh signals
in place. And one of the expressions is
data drives signals and then signals
drive actions. And so the data was
living passively. We weren't grabbing it
and sending signals to AEES.
And those signals didn't have a set of
steps or actions that live behind them.
And so now as an example, we gather
together network effect inside of a
business. We look at like multiple use
and collaboration inside of a
organization.
And then we send a certain amount of
touchless signals, email, inproduct,
maybe AVM. We might do retargeting and
then eventually that sequence is ready
for some sort of outbound motion, but
it's not a totally cold outbound motion.
We're going outbound into an enterprise
that's already using Canva. And so we
think data drives these signals. These
signals make us prepared to create
actions. And then we have to have the
right actions. And the process of how
you do that matters as much as the
skill. And so we started talking about
well what would be the sales process we
would follow and one of the first things
that everybody thinks about is like will
this be a challenger sale or will we use
medpic or will we use winning by design
spice
and I think those questions matter and
the answers to those questions matter
and for the record we did pick winning
by design we are using spiced we have a
little bit of a canva flare on it and
that process and methodology matters a
lot but actually what matters underneath
that is the skill of our team our
customer success team being great
communicators and having a playbook
that's tied to those signals we're
getting and the AEES and our BDRs
working in collaboration to have the
right level of skill to carry good
conversations and the one thing that we
all miss everybody knows this is are we
super clear on the problem we're solving
for our customers and we anchor
ourselves on that like daily and so yeah
process matters a lot but if you don't
have the skill to have a good customer
conversation that feels genuine
that actually is empathetic around the
problems they're trying to solve, like
game over. You'll have a hard time, you
really will have a hard time growing
your your sales momentum. Yeah. And I
think like that throughine to the
customer is like so key. I was telling
you backstage, the co-working space
where where I work out of sometimes, Guy
Kawasaki, the Guy Kawasaki who's your
chief product evangelist, he also works
out of there. And I said, guy, like what
what should I be asking Rob? and he's
like, you know, I'm not entirely sure,
but listen to this podcast with Melanie
and you know, they go deep on just the
the culture of Canva and the thing that
like really struck me was just like this
incredible customer centricity that
you've woven into whether it's like a
student sitting in some remote place
anywhere in the world right through to
you know a chief designer at IO maybe
that customer is front and center and I
thought that was like really a special
customer thought.
I mean it really like ultimately the
headline is it always comes down to
customer value.
The way we think about customer value is
we follow a customer journey framework.
I think most of us, this is not any big
like ooh new thing. Most of us do this.
But I think the difference between those
that talk about it and those that do it
well are the ones who do it well
actually start to embed the tracing and
tracking of a customer journey from the
very first point of awareness
all the way through some expression of
loyalty. And you can follow the through
line of this single customer experience.
You're not looking at it as like what
was my traffic last week. You're
actually looking at it at the customer.
How what what stages and steps are the
customer following to get themselves to
some level of loyalty? And are we
helping them or are they doing it on
their own? And ultimately, if all we
think about that matters for Canva is
taking someone who's aware and
interested in the product and leading
them through to solving the problems
that they're trying to accomplish, that
they're trying to knock down, which
might be scaling design, it might be
telling a story, it might be doing
something as simple as managing a social
media account. If we can draw them
through that experience and they're
happy with the outcomes, then we've won.
That's one customer that's moved through
the customer journey effectively. And
then now the question is can we do that
at scale and can we do it without
throwing a whole bunch of bodies at it
and so can we instrument it with some
digital experiences and some great
trained rep experience. If we can do
that we're off to the races. So okay so
as you built that upmarket enterprise
motion there was a lot of culture there
that you wanted to keep but no doubt
there was like things that you wanted to
change in process. So what were like
some of the tweaks that you made and
what were some of the things that you
kept? Yeah. Well, I mean the nice thing
is on the on the enterprise side, there
wasn't much that we had to not do.
One thing I would say that we had to not
do was organizationally, many of you
might work in organizations where you
have a customer success team that's like
the hightouch customer success team. And
then often times what happens is there's
a marketing organization or a product
organization that is doing customer
touches to your online PLG customers.
And what that creates is a huge
separation between teams that are
essentially trying to solve the same
problem, which is how do I help an
individual customer accomplish the task
that they're trying to accomplish and am
I paying attention to some of the same
signals? And so maybe one of the things
that we like knocked down was we just
decided there's a pool of people and
they are in businesses and they are
individuals and they are in teams but
they live inside of this common
population and that population are our
users. They're our customers and we
shouldn't care whether or not they're
paying us a lot of money or a little bit
of money or no money at all. We should
actually be thoughtful about are we
helping them solve their problems and
are we moving them through a journey
with the use of our product. And if we
do that really effectively, we're going
to get value later. They're going to
tell people about us. They're going to
move up a version and maybe move to a
paid version. They're going to invite
somebody else in their team to use the
product and ultimately maybe they become
a a larger paying customer.
And so we worry a lot less about how
much money we're making from a customer.
We worry a lot more about how much value
are they getting out of the product. Now
our first intent because we want to be
scaled is can we do that digitally? Can
we do it in product? Can we do it
through email? Can we do it with some
other outreach methodology? Can we do it
with AI? If we can, we do, right? If we
can't, we try to batch them up. We try
to pull them into groups of customers
that have like problems and we can use
something like a webinar or we can use a
group email or we can use a group Zoom
session. we can invite them to connect
with a customer success rep with enough
scale and enough customers that it's
like financially viable because that's
what your CFO is going to care about
like what is the perouch cost and we
don't worry about the perouch cost if
you're thinking about scale every time.
Yeah, it's you know it's interesting you
say that because I actually had a very
similar conversation uh with John
Hurstein who's a CCO at Fox similar
problem and that you know you could have
the end user using Canva to help their
kid with their homework and that person
actually happens to be the chief
customer officer at big company XYZ and
is pulling you up market into that
organization and so the blanket
statement is just like treat all your
customers like gold and and really good
things happen 100% Yeah.
And I think you know a lot of us don't
pause and actually like unpack the
economics of our business models such
that we do think about like what is the
real cost of letting a customer wallow
versus what is the real cost of
providing some level of support and
would be willing to invest in building
an infrastructure that provides the kind
of scaled support and success
experiences that customers really need.
That's how we think about it. Uh the one
last thought that I'll throw out with
you is um we all do an amazing job of
customer acquisition. This is an
industry SAS in particular, we kick ass
and orchestrated customer acquisition.
Our lead funnels are dialed. We
understand all of our funnels. We know
the difference between top of funnel and
lowerfunnel. We're great at it. That
level of orchestration does not need to
live in the pre-sale environment. that
orchestration actually is better served
in the postsale environment. Yeah. Like
we should be better in the postale
orchestration of customer experiences
than we are in the front side because
most of us if we're in a SAS business we
have an install base and there's no way
that the new customer acquisition in any
given quarter is going to dwarf the
current install base. All the value is
in the install base. So I just I
evangelize that with our team. I
evangelize it with people that I talk
to. I think it's it's an overlooked
discipline. the orchestrated post sale
better than you are a pre-sale. And I
love it because yeah, we always talk
about like, okay, what's the second
order revenue if we give them a great
experience? And what we forget about is
like what's the second order like loss
that happens if we don't give them a
great experience. And and I think that
is really hard to account for and we
kind of just bury that deep somewhere
and don't think about it. But man, it
can really come back to bite you.
Yep. All right. So, we talked about a
little bit about your process. This
whole conversation was meant to be about
AI. There's so many things I wanted to
talk to you about.
Everybody's already talking about AI in
every other session. We don't need that
here.
But, okay. So, like tell me some of the
cool things that you're doing in your
organization right now because you've
got an AIcentric platform. No doubt
you're doing a ton of amazing work.
We think about AI in like two forms.
There's the AI that's in Canva that's
available for customers to use that gets
a pretty significant portion of our
attention as you can imagine because
we're trying to put experiences in the
hands of our end users that allow them
to scale imagery ads creation.
You know, we I think we recently shared
that we've had like 16 billion instances
of AI usage, which I think ranks amongst
the top AI use cases with some of the
tippy top performers in the AI space.
So, I think we're pretty good on the
consumer side. So just like the way we
try to make complex things simple, we
are focusing for our own team to find
complex workflows and complex
experiences for our reps and we're
trying to stitch AI next to those to
make them easier. And I think that's
largely what everybody's trying to do.
That's not unique to us. We have a
mindset that's like there are probably
great tools in the world. we should
start with those tools and implement
them in our own workflows as opposed to
try to build them ourselves right now.
And we're willing to try almost anything
if it's a reasonable investment. And
we're kind of finding our way. We're
building rep to CS processes that are
heavily underpinned with AI. We are
using AI to like understand. So we're
talking about these signals. You get
data to give you signals. Signals guide
actions. That framework is literally our
AI philosophy. Great data underpins the
models that we're putting in place and
the experiences we're stitching on top.
And so I think we're okay at it. I think
we have a long way to go, which is nice.
When you're a private company, you can
say statements like that. When you're a
public company, if you say we have a
long way to go, you're like hammered.
But I'd say that Canva has a long way to
go. We're going to focus first on
getting it right for our customers.
Yeah. And then we're going to get it
right for our own team and we're going
to be thinking about ways to scale to
make better experiences for our
customers and make it easier for all of
our reps to perform their tasks. You
know, I love that though because it's,
you know, it's almost that same humility
that has made you such an amazing
company from day one. It's like solve a
small problem for a niche group, right?
I think it the you initial goal was
people in academic situations and do
that really well and go from there and
start small and make it big and it's
pretty amazing journey you've been on. I
I admire it a lot. So dude, thank you so
much.
And thanks everybody for listening.
Hopefully you got something out of that.
Yeah. Thank you. All right. Have a great
day.
Hey everybody, this episode is brought
to you by Adio, the AI native CRM. Just
connect your email and Adio instantly
builds a powerful CRM with every company
contact and interaction you've ever had.
Get 15% off your first year. That's 15%
off your first year at atio.com/saster.
That's adio.com/sasser.